- About 15 years ago,
I watched the film Life After Life,
which became part of my all-time
must-see list of impactful videos.
The subject was near-death experiences,
featuring Dr. Raymond Moody.
Raymond, as he prefers to be called,
is referred to as the father
of near-death experiences.
But, he will, and did, quickly correct anyone
who proffers this title upon him,
and saying that Plato is, in truth,
the father of near-death experiences.
His life is a paradox,
in that he's devoted 50 years
to understanding and documenting
a phenomenon that is often referred to
as a spiritual experience,
while maintaining that NDEs can also be explained
through pure logic.
Raymond, you have such an iconic kind of background
in the subject of near-death experience,
and I know that you don't really view it that way,
per se, but that's the fact.
I mean, the original film, Life After Life,
through the last couple of decades is,
I have given that to people
that are approaching the end,
with such pleasure,
because of the joy that it brings people,
to see that this experience is truly
the passageway back to the true self.
And, on that note,
I heard you say, in your lecture last night,
you've never been a religious person,
and you were raised in the south.
Yeah.
I assume
it was kind of bible-belt country?
My dad was a military officer, a surgeon,
and served in World War Two, in the Pacific theater,
as a medic.
And, he went away to World War Two,
on the day I was born,
and didn't come back 'til I was 18 months old.
Oh.
And, that generation didn't talk.
But, you know, as you grow older,
you realize what trauma they went through.
So, later in life, I've finally come to realize
Dad must have had some horrific experiences.
The way I put it together, it sort of embittered him.
Religion to him was a non-starter.
So,that was good, from him.
He'd seen
too many atrocities?
Yeah, and that benefited me,
in that I didn't go through all that church stuff.
And so, I mean, I'm not religious,
but, it's not a crusade of mine, I just--
Right, but, the thing
that's interesting is--
I have no interest
in it.
is, so many people
that go through this experience,
they always refer to it as a spiritual experience.
But, some people cross the line,
and really start applying almost the term
religious experience, in the place of spiritual.
You know, I have to wonder,
nothing happens by accident.
You've been doing this incredible work,
as a deep academic, in this area.
But, you were drawn to it, obviously,
for other reasons.
There's a deeply spiritual component,
to being drawn so deeply into this work
that helps people so much.
Well, by definition.
However, you could equally use that word philosophical.
I went to--
Yes.
the University of Virginia,
at the age of 18, in 1962,
planning to be an astronomy major,
and getting my PhD in astronomy.
But, I'd also been interested in philosophy,
in high school, so when I went to UVA,
in my first year, I took a philosophy course,
and immediately decided that's what I wanted to do.
And the specific thing that brought me into it
was Plato.
And, Plato was the first person
I had ever encountered, at age 18,
who even discussed this notion of an afterlife.
And, the fact that he took it seriously
indicated to me that it was something
you should pay attention to.
So, at the end of Plato's Republic,
which I read at my first semester at UVA,
there's this near-death experience,
and that's what perked my interest.
And then, three years later,
while I was still an undergraduate philosophy student,
in 1965, I met a wonderful man,
who was a professor of psychiatry there,
Dr. George Ritchie, one of my philosophy professors,
told me about him,
and he, some years before,
he had been pronounced dead, twice,
within a 9-minute period,
and in the interim, had the first of these
near-death experiences I ever heard.
So, to make a long story short,
started investigating it,
got my PhD in philosophy in 1969,
and then, became a philosophy professor,
and immediately started hearing these
from my students.
So, it's a long process, but that's how it started.
So, over this process,
where was your first personal experience,
with someone, up close and personal,
that had gone through a near-death experience.
What point in this journey and education?
1965.
Okay.
One of my philosophy professors
told me that, right there in Charlottesville,
was Dr. Ritchie.
He’s a very well-known person,
in Charlottesville,
and very receptive to talking to student groups,
so in 1965, I heard Dr. Ritchie talk.
So, that was your first exposure,
was his experience, or?
Well, if you don’t count Plato,
Well, yes.
three years before.
Yeah, but, what I realized,
from Dr. Ritchie’s experience,
was that it was not just something
pertaining to ancient Greece.
Yes, and then,
through the years, obviously,
this started taking on a greater and greater focus.
What was the turning point for you,
because you’re also an MD.
Yeah, well, that was long before I was an MD.
The next big, sort of, revolution
in my thinking about it,
was, from 1969 to ‘72, I was Professor of Philosophy
at East Carolina University,
in Greenville, North Carolina.
And, I began to hear this from my students.
Plato has always been my favorite philosopher
to teach, so when the students got to the point
where Plato talks about the afterlife,
they responded.
So, over the next three years,
I gathered about a dozen of these cases
from my students.
And then, as word spread,
I was invited to various clubs around Greenville,
and I just started collecting these things.
So, when I went to medical school,
in September of ‘72,
I already had about a dozen cases of this.
I mean, it’s a long, evolutionary process.
Then, when I started medical school in '72,
I had quite a number of professors
who were very interested in this,
and they would refer cases to me.
So, I started talking about this
at the medical college, in April of ‘73,
during my first year.
April ‘73.
Yes, so that was the first--
So, you’re almost, gosh,
40 years into it, now.
Well, it depends on where you start, yeah, if you start--
Well, yeah, Plato '65.
Yeah, 50 years in '62.
It was '62, yeah, almost 50 years.
Almost 50 years into it.
So, that’s why they say,
"You are the father of near death experience".
Well, they say that.
Understanding, that’s the 'they'.
They say that, but to me, it's like
Plato and the ancient Greek philosophers.
The ancient Greek philosophers
were into this,
and they called people like this,
who were reputed to return from death,
revenants, and this was a big aspect
of ancient Greek philosophy.
That’s how I got interested in it,
because you can’t really understand
the origins of Western thought,
unless you understand about these
early philosophers’ interest
in this very phenomenon that, today,
we call the near-death experience.
Mhm.
When you started encountering
some of these people, early on,
can you give us just a couple of examples,
because we love hearing them.
Yeah.
Of some of the stories
that just captured you, and gripped you so deeply,
that there was no choice but to continue.
Well, Dr. Ritchie looms large in that.
Can you share his experience?
Yes, basically, in December of 1943,
at Camp Barkeley, Texas,
he was a recruit into the army,
and during his basic training,
he developed double lobar pneumonia,
and was found, apparently, dead, in the ward,
of double lombar pneumonia.
The doctor came, pronounced him dead.
About nine minutes later,
the ward boy, that was the person he had ever known,
of his age, who had died.
He couldn't face this,
So, he came and persuaded Dr. Francie,
who was the ward physician,
to inject adrenaline,
directly into George's heart.
And, George came back.
But, in the interim,
he said, suddenly, he came to,
and found himself out of his body.
Nobody could see him.
Nobody could hear him.
And, as this experience progressed,
he said the light started getting better.
He found himself surrounded
by a sort of three-dimensional panorama
of everything he had ever done,
and in the presence of this profound being
of complete compassion and love,
and had quite a number of experiences with this.
And then, it greatly shaped his practice of medicine.
After this, he went on to become a physician.
He was only 20 years old,
at the time of his experience.
And, I knew George for the rest of his life.
He was, I can honestly say,
at my age now of 66,
that George Ritchie is the finest human being
I ever have known.
Oh, I met him when I was 19,
but he totally changed my life.
But, after that, I think, the next one
that was a very significant event to me,
was, some time in late '69, or early '70,
I was a Professor of Psychiatry, at East Carolina.
And, a young man, who had been severely injured
in an accident, about a year ago,
and had obvious scarring and everything,
made his way up after class, one day,
and asked me, "Why don't we talk about life after death,
"in this class?"
and I said, "Why are you interested in that?"
So, this young man said, "Because, about a year ago,
"I was in a bad accident,
"and my doctors said I died,
"and I had an experience
"that has totally changed my life.
"But, I haven't had anybody to talk about it with".
So, I interviewed him,
and, well, anybody who researches this
will know that gathering cases is no problem.
Right, there's so many.
As soon as you're known for an interest.
So, it just very quickly snowballed.
Some time in 1970, toward the Spring,
I was already talking around to campus groups,
on this, and so on.
It was the same thing, as all researchers in this know,
that gathering cases is no problem.
I would go to the local clubs and civic clubs, and so on,
and there were always people there who had it.
Did you find that,
as you were speaking to these groups,
at that time, again we're talking 40 years ago, anyway,
Almost 50.
Yeah, almost 50.
That, there was a certain receptivity,
in certain types of groups, for example?
Like, were the young kids more receptive,
or did you find, maybe, people who are more aligned
with religions, were more receptive?
Or civics?
No.
Is it an across-the-board rel...
Well, this was inherently riveting information.
Yes.
And, I think the fact that it was being presented
by somebody with a PhD in philosophy
conveyed a little weight.
But, on the other hand,
the experience speaks for itself.
I mean, for example,
when I would go to one of these civic clubs,
and these, at that time,
were an exclusively male province,
and so, these were the movers and shakers,
in this little community.
So, when you open it up to a group,
and the guy who's a well-known businessman,
there, in the community,
acknowledges to the rest of the group,
"Yeah, that happened to me",
it carries its own verification.
It does, because it seems
that it's speaking to something much deeper.
Even when I first read Life After Life,
and then got, at that time, the VHS of it,
and shave shared it with--
Well, now, I'm a little confused,
'cause Life after Life was published
in November of '75.
Yes.
But, you're talking about
the film that came much later.
Yeah, the film that came out, right,
because I'd read the book,
and then later got the film.
Ah, yeah.
And I've shared that with a lot of people
the families of people nearing the end of their journey.
But, the thing is,
I have not experienced a near-death experience.
I've been unconscious, a lot,
but, I haven't experienced that.
Nonetheless, there's something in me,
and Scott and I were talking about this,
on the way here.
Even if you haven't
It relates to it.
been through it,
you feel such a truth, a deep truth, in it,
that it brings people to tears.
And now, of course, you're in the new documentary,
Afterlife, that Paul Perry has produced.
Uhuh.
And so, this is coming back,
center stage, again.
But, something in each one of us,
remembers something about that place
and state of being.
You know, I think there is,
you're absolutely right-on about that.
Now, I don't know how to account for that.
I do have a hypothesis,
but it takes a long time to explain.
Please go ahead.
If you can do a thumbnail version, please.
Basically, I think it's just an observation
of human beings,
that certain kind of narratives connect with people,
and stories connect with people, very deeply.
And, it depends on the structure of the story.
For example, screenplay writers will tell you,
there's, they give various numbers, but only, what,
seven to 10 actual stories,
and they get replayed, again and again,
and so, any movie you see is typically
just goes by a pattern,
and they mix up the characters a little bit in the story.
But, that's because these things
have a very deep-seated affect on us.
And so, the narratives that give us
the strongest response,
are the ones that are preserved,
and I think that narrative structure,
the story structure, that people give us,
when they come back
from a near-death experience,
is inherently fascinating.
Because, one thing is that anything that brings
inconsistent elements together
is riveting to the human mind.
True.
And if you think of a near-death experience,
it's an inherently self-contradictory kind
of mode of expression,
because, what people tell us is,
first of all, there are no words.
Secondly, that it did not take place in time.
One woman, Vi Horton, my friend of, gosh, many years,
who've had this experience, said,
"Raymond, you could say that my experience
"took one second,
"or you could say that it took 10,000 years.
"It doesn't matter which way you said it".
So, they say, there's no time.
And there's no space.
They say it's not the space that you and I are in.
But, then, what do they tell us,
within those parameters?
They say, "Well, I got out of my body,
"I went through a tunnel, into a light.
"I met my deceased relatives.
"I saw my life pass in review.
"I returned to my body,
"and came back to life".
Now, what kind of story is that?
That's a travel narrative, right?
But, the assumptions that we must make,
for a travel narrative to make meaning,
is that there is space and time.
Right.
So, how can you,
you see it's really,
the mind is riveted to that, for two reasons.
Number one, the structure has a self-contradiction.
So, your mind is drawn to something
that is self-contradicted.
You try to ease the contradiction.
So, that part of it is riveting.
Plus, it can raise a great deal of hope.
It leads people to, sort of, hope that there's
something after death.
Well, the response, commonly,
to, when your original film Life After Life came out,
was, people would be moved to tears,
and I'd hear people say, "Ah, I can't wait to die".
(chuckles)
I mean, seriously, I've heard a lot of people say that,
"I can't wait to have that experience".
There's something in us,
that is innately drawn toward that light.
Yeah.
Or, that source.
Now, one of the things you talk about,
that people come back with,
that seems to be the dominant theme,
is the whole experience of love.
Yeah
Has been shaped in a new way.
There's a different understanding.
Can you talk about some of that?
Well, yeah, I think it's pretty obvious
that, if you had an experience in the presence
of a being of complete compassion and love,
you reviewed everything you had ever done,
in an instant,
and that you reviewed the events,
not from the point of view you had
when you experienced them,
but rather, from the point of view of the other actors.
For example, people say that if you see yourself
doing an unkind act, in that review,
then you immediately feel the sadness
you brought about in other people's life.
Or, if you see yourself doing something loving,
then you immediately feel the impact the other way,
the good feelings.
So, this brings people to the realization that,
in their words, the most important thing we can do,
while we're alive, is to learn to love.
It doesn't make it that much easier, by the way,
in anybody, you know.
Please, explain that part.
Well.
'Cause you followed
people, through years, after these experiences.
Yeah, George Ritchie,
in 1976,
was visiting my house,
and he said, he just sort of dropped by,
for reasons I much later realized,
what it was all about,
but it was atypical of him, to just drop by.
But George did, just drop by.
And, he said,
"Raymond, this experience
"makes your humanity even more of a burden,
"in a way".
And what he was talking about,
was that, even after seeing this vision
of love and so on, you fly off the handle at people,
you say things you wish you hadn't said,
so, it becomes a sort of spiritual discipline,
I think, to always keep that in mind,
which George did, better than anybody
I've ever known.
I'd like to re-emphasize that.
of all the people I've ever known,
George was the finest person.
There are three near-death experiences,
really, that have stayed with me,
more than any others.
One, George Ritchie, this Vi Horton,
who was a dear friend of mine from,
I think I met Vi
in late August of '75,
or no, a little later than that.
It was October of '75.
And then, another was a wonderful man
named Ricky Bradshaw, that I knew.
And what was that experience like?
Well, you know, they're all pretty much the same.
They're similar, yeah.
But it's just the memorable characters.
Yeah, yeah.
Ricky was essentially cut in two,
in an accident, in Peoria, Illinois.
He was 19 years old, I think he had 40 cardiac arrests.
I talked with his physicians involved in this.
The experience of Ricky Bradshaw
totally changed the lives of the physicians
who were involved in his treatment,
because they couldn't deny all the things he said.
He had this magnificent vision
of going into a place of light, and so...
And he was able to share this, I assume,
over maybe, was it one experience that he had?
Or, did he have numerous--
Well, it was just
one experience.
during the course,
and he shared it over a period of time
of his recovery, with those around him?
Yes, and he was in the hospital for 18 months.
Yeah.
They told him
he'd never walk again.
Two years later, Ricky climbed a mountain with me,
in Virginia, so he's a remarkable person.
The will that it would take
within his being.
Yeah, and the kindness.
Did the near-death experience help
with that will to recover and heal?
I don't know, 'cause I only, by definition,
I only knew Ricky after the event,
but yeah, you know, that's the impression
you got, talking with him,
that it was his will to come back,
'cause he had learned in his life review
that there were things he needed to complete.
Yeah, and this has to raise the bar,
considerably, to have this experience,
to see where there's an imbalance,
what needs to be tidied up in our relationships,
and come back with, essentially, the same
operating personality.
Like you say, raising the bar,
to try to--
Yeah, yeah.
It's like George Ritchie really brought that
to my attention.
Because, I mean, I spent many, many hours,
over a long period of time, with George,
and he was one of my best friends in life,
and you know, he constantly emphasized that,
that, you know, you're still burdened with all these...
Yeah.
What you were before.
Failings, and, yeah.
And you're still a human being,
so lest anyone try to jump into this experience,
thinking you're having nothing but bliss.
Oh heavens, no.
Heavens, no.
Anybody who acts to you
like this made them a saint,
well, you can pretty much think
that they're probably an impostor or something.
And, in all reality, that is one issue
we have to face with this.
I mean, it's wide-out stated accurately,
because anybody can see it,
is that this is a natural draw for impostors, right,
who crave attention.
But then, the way you can very readily distinguish
between an impostor and somebody
who really has this,
is that, people who really have this are very modest.
Like, if you ask them,
"Do little dogs make it to heaven?"
"Well, you know, I just don't know,
"I only saw so much."
Yeah, their experience.
You know, if there are...
"I don't know."
Whereas, the impostor, whatever you ask them,
"Yes!" or "No!" or whatever.
Yeah.
That kind of thing, watch out for,
'cause that kind of individual is bad news.
Okay, and then, the whole notion
about someone becoming, again,
so magnetized to this experience,
because they're resonating with the relief
and the joy, and wanting to connect
with something of a loving nature,
that they even go so far,
and I know people who have done this,
who attempt to take their own lives,
just to be able to feel that freedom and release
back into something that they perceive as love.
What happens in that scenario,
with suicide attempts, that do come back.
Well, by and large, people with suicide attempts
don't have any different experience
from those who come close to death
for other reasons.
But, my experience, as a human being,
as a psychiatrist, is that every adult
that I know well enough to know,
is flirting with suicide in one way or another,
talking on the telephone,
driving down the highway,
or alcohol,
or drugs,
or eating themselves to death,
you know, not doing any exercises.
These are all self-destructive.
Those are all self-destructive things,
and yet, people full-well know,
or are responsible for knowing,
that, if they continue that behavior,
it's going to kill them.
Well, what's the difference,
between that and somebody who does it?
Takes a few pills.
Pills, or you know, I mean,
it's a matter of perspective.
God, presumably, is working on a time scale
of billions of years,
and the idea that a divine power
would discriminate,
in other words, this person took 30 years
with cigarettes, this person took a few minutes
with pills, what's the difference?
Now, that said, I will say that one thing
about people with suicidal near-death experiences
is that they tell you that, never again would they
attempt suicide.
Because, they learned from their experience
that, even when times are tough,
life has a purpose.
That's beautiful.
That's a beautiful take-away from that.
Well, it's beautiful, but also, it's reality.
It's reality, yeah.
And those who attempt suicide,
and do not have near-death experiences,
as I recall your saying,
Yeah.
are move likely to try it again.
Oh, absolutely.
They have a continued high rate
of subsequent suicide attempts.
So, if you look at this subject,
and let's just say that humanity, as of today,
you can talk about it on the nightly news,
now embraces the fact
that there is a life after life.
How would that change?
I don't think so, I think...
Oh, oh, you mean hypothetically.
No, I'm saying hypothetically.
Let's say that becomes our dominant belief system.
How would that change,
or restructure, the way we interact with each other,
in our society?
I'm dubious that it would.
I just don't know.
You know, a lot of people get motivated
to investigate this,
because, they say,
"Oh, if we could only prove life after death,
"life would be beautiful, everybod...".
I just don't think so.
I mean, I may be wrong, but I don't know.
But, the one thing I do absolutely know,
is that rational proof of an afterlife,
if I could put it that way,
will dramatically restructure the human cognitive system
and the human mind.
And, the way I know that,
is that I've already done it.
I'm in a project now,
which has been ongoing for some years,
but is, sort of, getting ready to come out,
in which, basically,
I'm equipping people
with a new logic from within that framework.
There are entirely new ways to research
the question of life after death.
So, basically, what I've done,
is to devise a methodology that,
by preparing people,
through an intensive seminar,
with this new system of logic,
what it does is, concurrently with absorbing
this new logic, it recruits new unknown
cognitive faculties of the mind.
Now, that period is the point of this program.
It's to instill a new logic
and open new faculties of the mind,
and that is the object of my work, okay?
Mhm.
And the results that come from that
are that it enhances people's analytical thinking abilities
that opens up creative channels, and so on.
But, that being the primary object,
what is also going to happen, out of this,
is that as time progresses,
some of those people who have been through
this preparation, just by chance,
will have near-death experiences.
And, what happens, at this point,
is that when they come back
from their near-death experience,
they have an entirely new way of articulating it.
So, this is the next step in this near-death research,
although, I think it's not going to go over well
with the people who are already set in their ways,
about how to study this.
They will be the last ones to be dragged along.
Always the case, in science.
It is, it is, but at the same time,
it has the virtue of really working,
and of being fully within rational parameters.
So, what I can confidently say,
is that I have made a sort of breakthrough
in rational comprehension of the afterlife.
And I say that, not based on my perceptions of it,
'cause I'm too close to this work.
It actually is something that I've been working on
since 1963, and was part of my doctoral dissertation
in 1969.
But, it does happen to be the future
of near-death studies.
When will this be made available
to the public?
When are you...
Well, that's something I can't say.
I don't know,
because thus far, this work's for people
with a certain very specific profile.
Number one, they just enjoy thinking,
for its own sake.
Number two, they have a knack for reasoning,
and analytical thinking,
in other words, they like to analyze things.
Third, that they are patient and persistent,
which is a rare quality,
in the United States, today.
And fourth, that they have a good sense of humor.
But, given people with those criteria,
I can really blow their minds.
Since I'm too close to this work,
after all these years,
I can't make an adequate evaluation of it, myself.
My confidence comes from the fact
that I have given this work
to professors of engineering,
professors of philosophy,
professors of logic,
professors of psychology,
professors of business,
and so on, and so on, and so on.
None of them had a prior interest
in the afterlife question,
and I asked them to evaluate it very harshly,
and to find any flaws,
because before I publish it,
you don't want to be taken by surprise, right?
Right.
I want to know
all the objections, beforehand.
Right.
But, the most brilliant people I know,
in my life, and the clearest analytical thinkers
have all come back with the unanimous verdict
that it's real.
So, I'm going on that.
And, what I can tell you is that, therefore,
number one, a breakthrough has been made
towards rational comprehension of life after death.
Number two, the last people
who are going to be interested
in this, or who want to accept it,
are the established researchers
in this kind of thing.
Because, all of that,
all the so-called parapsychological thinking and all,
all that is about narrativism as I said.
They just have various ways of telling and retelling
the same old stories,
whereas this is something
that doesn't involve narratives,
but conceptual thinking,
like thinking through,
over a two-day, very intensive period,
a long chain of reasoning.
But when you do, it liberates faculties
of the mind that we haven't,
or that are, obviously, by definition, there,
but that we've kind of closed off
for about 2300 years.
Yes.
We're not going to bypass the mind,
we definitely need to evolve it.
Well, open up things that are there,
Absolutely.
potentially.
And this sounds like it's a bridge.
Well, it is, that's exactly what I call it.
It's a bridge to forever.
And, yeah, and this is so funny to me,
because, being a logician,
that was one of the main things I taught and I studied,
was logic, when I got my PhD,
and so, what is so funny and paradoxical
about this to me, is that I'm quite confident
saying these things.
This is gonna work out.
But, it's gonna be a hard thing to swallow,
for people who are sort of set in their ways
about how to think about these things,
or talk about them.
And, also, it's going to change the format
of how people talk about near-death experiences.
Now, why is that important?
It has to do with what's called parallax.
And that is that, if you asked yourself, for example,
the question, you know, we all know
that it's 4.3 light years, or whatever,
to proxima centauri, or alpha centauri.
Well, you think about it for a minute.
How do they know, right?
I mean, you can't send a homing pigeon out there
with an odometer on its leg.
(laughs) Right.
So, how do they know?
Well, this came to light in the twenties,
when they realized,
they already knew by the neutonian mechanics
at that point, that it's 186 million miles
across the orbit of earth, around the sun.
So, astronomer measured the angle
to certain stars, when the earth was here in its orbit,
waited to six months later, when it was here,
measured the angle again,
and you could see there would be a little difference,
and based on that and the known distance
across the orbit of the earth,
she calculated the distance to nearby stars.
And similarly, if you look at it this way,
we already have a large number of reliable cases,
I'll put it that way.
Near-death
experiences.
Neath death experiences.
Formatted through the framework
of aristotelian logic, and in very short order now,
we're going to have a different way
of articulating it,
from the framework of this new logic,
so that gives us a triangulation.
So, we're on the verge of major, new,
major progress and rational understanding
of life after death.
Well, on that note,
I'm thrilled.
I can't wait to see what you come up with.
And I know that you're plenty courageous,
because you've been at this a really long time,
to stand up to--
Oh, no.
It's not courage.
any of those who--
You know, it's nice that people say that,
but it wasn't courage.
You know, when Life After Life,
I wrote Life After Life in the summer of '74.
The publishers, which were Bantam,
or, the idea, originally, was to send it to Ballantine.
They sat on it for a year,
and then, finally, I persuaded,
in the fall of '75,
I persuaded my publisher, John Eagle,
to publish it himself.
And so, we did.
But you see, some people say,
"Oh, you were so courageous".
Yeah, I wrote it when I was a 3rd year medical student,
and that's balloney.
I was absolutely sure,
when I published that book,
or, when I wrote it,
that anybody who just would ask around among them,
or asked for themselves, around even people they knew,
would be able to find plenty of cases of it.
So, it wasn't courage.
I wasn't afraid at all,
because I knew what the outcome would be,
that anybody who tried it out for themselves
would confirm it.
And similarly, with this new thing,
although it's gonna take a different population,
'cause this is gonna take, initially,
it'll take analytical thinkers, and so on,
who, you know, really enjoy thinking through
a very complex case.
But, nonetheless, this will seep out,
and this is real.
We now do have genuine rational progress
toward comprehending the idea
of an afterlife.
Good news, we need it.
Any final thoughts?
No, no.
Just that it's great
I think you've just
said it so beautifully,
being with you.
I can't wait for the next evolution of your work.
So, whenever that's out,
I'll be watching, I'll be following you.
And thank you so much.
I really have looked forward to meeting you
for the last 20 years
Oh, my goodness.
I have.
What a nice thing,
Truly.
It's sweet of you.
(Regina chuckles)
Thank you.
To follow up on Dr. Moody's breakthrough work,
called The New Logic,
do an online search to find out what is required
to attend this two-day intensive workshop
on evolving your intellect.
As he said, this is not for everyone,
as it requires the rigorous use of the mind,
along with openness and a sense of humor.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.